---
layout: post
title: Tests
permalink: /about/tests
category: about
---

Testing is extremely important in the design of Fire. There are a lot of
different types of tests in Fire and, more or less, [test driven development][2] drives the design of Fire.

Tests can be found in the */tests* subdirectory of any particular module
of Fire. CMakeLists.txt files use the *tests.cmake* module in the *cmake*
folder to configure and build tests.

# Types of Tests

Fire contains a lot of unit tests. 

# Running Tests

Fire combines CMake's testing system, CTest, and Boost's Unit Testing 
Framework for testing. 

You can run the tests in Fire in your build directory after the build by simply executing

```bash
make test
```

Since Fire's build system is built on cmake, you can also execute the tests
using ctest. For example, you can execute

```bash
ctest
```

You can also run individual tests manually. For example, you can run a test in
the astrophysics module like so, assuming you start in your build directory,

```bash
cd astrophysics
./myTest
```

### Where to run?

All tests in fire are written to run from the directory where they are built,
not the top-level build directory. For example, all astrophysics tests should
be run from the astrophysics directory, all parser tests should be run from the
parsers directory, etc. This makes it possible for the test code to very simply
interact with test data files without any special requirements for finding those test data files.

The custom CMake code in Fire that generates your test (see cmake/tests.cmake),
configures ctest so that when you run it from the build directory it secretly
executes in the appropriate subdirectory. So, if you run "make test," the build
quietly changes into the appropriate directory to run the test. Make sure that you follow the third example above for manually running your test in the proper
directory if you need to run individual tests.


### Executing By Label

You can run subsets of Fire's tests by passing the labels of the tests that you
want to run to ctest. The following command will execute all of the
"astrophysics" tests in Fire.

```bash
ctest -L FireAstro
```

The valid labels are the CMake module names defined for each packaged in its 
CMakeLists.txt file.

### On NVidia Optimus Cards with Linux

NVidia's Optimus Technology requires special care and feeding on Linux. If you
have this setup and your system is configure correctly, you need only modify
the above command by adding the "optirun" prefix

```bash
optirun make test
```

If you do not use this command, you may see segmentation faults or other
errors. The alternative to optirun, called "primusrun," may or may not work.
(Sometimes it works for the author and sometimes it doesn't.)

# Verbose Output

Boost unit tests do not print all of their output by default. Neither does
ctest. This makes debugging with stdout difficult! The level of
output is controlled by environment variables that must be set before the tests run. For example, running a test without this variable will look something like

```bash
$ ./DelimitedTextParserTest 
Running 2 test cases...

*** No errors detected
```
but running it with the log level set to "all" will have different output,

```bash
BOOST_TEST_LOG_LEVEL=all ./DelimitedTextParserTest 
Running 2 test cases...
Entering test suite "Parsers"
Entering test case "checkCSV"
Configuring fixture.
Fixture configured.
fire/parsers/tests/DelimitedTextParserTest.cpp(94): info: check 3 == data.size() passed
fire/parsers/tests/DelimitedTextParserTest.cpp(96): info: check 3 == dataEntry.size() passed

...

fire/parsers/tests/DelimitedTextParserTest.cpp(114): info: check 8729.9 == dataEntry[3] passed
Leaving test case "checkCSV"; testing time: 1005mks
Entering test case "checkSpace"
Leaving test case "checkSpace"; testing time: 805mks
Leaving test suite "Parsers"

*** No errors detected
```

Detailed information on the log levels of the Boost Unit Testing Framework
are available on their [log level parameter page][1].

To get ctest to display all of this information, the CTEST_OUTPUT_ON_FAILURE
flag can be combined with the BOOST log level to display all the information

```bash
CTEST_OUTPUT_ON_FAILURE=1 BOOST_TEST_LOG_LEVEL=all make test
```

[1]: http://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_34_1/libs/test/doc/components/utf/parameters/log_level.html

[2]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Test-driven_development